---
layout: post
comments: true
categories: rest
---



### Use RESTful service URLs

Under REST principles, a URL identifies a resource. The following URL design patterns are considered REST best practices:

        URLs should include nouns, not verbs.
        Use plural nouns only for consistency (no singular nouns).
        Use HTTP methods (HTTP/1.1) to operate on these resources:
        Use HTTP response status codes to represent the outcome of operations on resources.

##### Should

Agencies should consistently apply RESTful design patterns for API URLs.

### Versioning

Example of an API URL that contains a version number:

GET /v1/path/to/resource HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### May

An API URL may contain a version number.

See versioning for more details.

##### Should

If an API URL does not contain a version number (anonymous version), then it should be understood that it always refers to the latest version.

##### Should Not

Anonymous API versions should not be considered stable, because the latest version changes with each release.
### Formats

Allow users to request formats like JSON or XML, for example:

        http://example.gov/api/v1/magazines.json
        http://example.gov/api/v1/magazines.xml

### URL Depth

The resource/identifier/resource URL pattern is sufficient for full attribute visibility between any resources. Therefor, this URL depth is usually sufficient to support any arbitrary resource graph. If your URL design goes deeper than resource/identifier/resource, it may be evidence that the granularity of your API is too coarse.

##### Recommended

Avoid URL designs deeper than resource/identifier/resource.

##### May

If your API has URLs deeper than resource/identifier/resource, consider revisiting the granularity of your API design.

### API Payload formats

To interact with an API, a consumer needs to be able to produce and consume messages in the appropriate format. For a sucessful interaction both parties would need to be able to process (parse and generate) these messages.

##### Should Not

Agency APIs should not produce or consume messages in a propietary format. This is because open formats maximise interoperability and reduce costs and risks associated with API utilisation.

##### May

Agency APIs may support multiple (open) payload formats. For example, it is not unusual for an API endpoint to support both JSON and XML formats.
API Payload format encoding

To interact with an API, the consumer needs to know how the payload is encoded. This is true regardless of how many encoding formats the endpoint supports.

##### Should Not

Agencies should not rely on documentation alone to inform consumers about payload encoding. This is generally poor affordance.

The three patterns of payload format encoding most frequently found in the wild are:

        HTTP headers (e.g. Content-Type: and Accept:)
        GET parameters (e.g. &format=json)
        resource label (e.g. /foo.json)

Using HTTP headers to specifying payload format can be convenient, however unfortunately not all clients handle headers consistently. Using HTTP headers alone will create issues for buggy clients.

Using GET parameters to specify format is another common pattern for specifying the encoding of API payloads. This results in slightly longer URLs than resource label technique, and can occasionally create problems with caching behavior of some proxy servers.

Resource label specification of API payload format, such as /foo/{id}.json, are functionally equivalent to GET parameter encoding but without the (admittedly rare) proxy caching issues.

##### Should

Agency APIs should consider supplimenting URL-based format speficications with HTTP header based format specification (e.g. Content-Type: and Accept:).

##### Should

Agency APIs should consider use resource labels to indicate payload format, e.g. /foo/{id}.json.

##### Should

If GET parameter based payload format specification is chosen, the potential impact of proxy caching and URL length issues should be evaluated.

### Good RESTful URL examples

##### List of magazines:

GET /api/v1/magazines.json HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### Filtering and sorting are server-side operations on resources:

GET /api/v1/magazines.json?year=2011&sort=desc HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### A single magazine in JSON format:

GET /api/v1/magazines/1234.json HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### All articles in (or belonging to) this magazine:

GET /api/v1/magazines/1234/articles.json HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### All articles in this magazine in XML format:

GET /api/v1/magazines/1234/articles.xml HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### Specify query parameters in a comma separated list:

GET /api/v1/magazines/1234.json?fields=title,subtitle,date HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### Add a new article to a particular magazine:

POST /api/v1/magazines/1234/articles.json HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

### Bad RESTful URL examples

##### Non-plural noun:

GET /magazine HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

GET /magazine/1234 HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### Verb in URL:

GET /magazine/1234/create HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

##### Filter outside of query string:

GET /magazines/2011/desc HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript


### Use versions

##### Never release an API without a version number.

Versions should be integers, not decimal numbers, prefixed with ‘v’. For example:

Good: v1, v2, v3

Bad: v-1.1, v1.2, 1.3

Maintain APIs at least one version back.


### Use HTTP methods and status codes

Meaningful status codes helps consumers utilise your API.

##### Should

HTTP methods and status codes should be used in compliance with their definitions under the HTTP/1.1 standard.

The action taken on the representation will be contextual to the media type being worked on and its current state.
Examples

##### GET /magazines
List all magazines contained within the /magazines resource

    GET /magazines HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.gov.au
    Accept: application/json, text/javascript

A response of “200 OK” indicating that the request has succeeded.

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Vary: Accept
    Content-Type: text/javascript

    {...}

##### Status Codes:	

        200 OK – no error
        404 Not Found – the “magazines” resource does not exist

##### POST /magazines

Create new magazine within the /magazines resource

    POST /magazines HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.gov.au
    Accept: application/json, text/javascript

    {...}

A response of “201 Created” indicates that the request has been fulfilled.

The URI of the new resource is provided in the response

    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Vary: Accept
    Content-Type: text/javascript

    { "id": "1234" }

### Batching results

If no limit is specified, return results with a default limit.

##### To get records 51 through 75 do this:

```
GET /magazines?limit=25&offset=50 HTTP/1.1
Host: example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

offset=50 means, ‘skip the first 50 records’

limit=25 means, ‘return a maximum of 25 records’
```


Information about record limits and total available count should also be included in the response. Example:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Vary: Accept
Content-Type: text/javascript

{
  "metadata": {
    "resultset": {
      "count": 227,
      "offset": 25,
      "limit": 25
    }
  },
  "results": [...]
```


### Mock behaviour

It is suggested that each resource accept a ‘mock’ parameter on the testing server. Passing this parameter should return a mock data response (bypassing the back-end).

Implementing this feature early in development ensures that the API will exhibit consistent behaviour, supporting a test-driven development methodology.

Mock features compliment interface specification documents, facilitating development of applications that reuse an API. When supplying client libraries or reference implementations for use with an API, mocking features can be implemented at that layer as an alternative to the API itself.
##### Example 1 - GET mock list of magazines

Request mock list of magazines

```
GET /api/v1/magazines.json?mock=True HTTP/1.1
Host: example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript
```

Response list of mock magazines

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Vary: Accept
Content-Type: text/javascript

{
  "metadata": {
    "resultset": {
      "count": 123,
      "offset": 0,
      "limit": 10
    }
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "id": "1234",
      "type": "magazine",
      "title": "Public Water Systems",
      "tags": [
        {"id": "125", "name": "Environment", “url”: “http://api.example.gov.au/v1/tags/125”},
        {"id": "834", "name": "Water Quality"}
      ],
      "created": "1231621302"
    },
    {
      "id": 2351,
      "type": "magazine",
      "title": "Public Schools",
      "tags": [
        {"id": "125", "name": "Elementary"},
        {"id": "834", "name": "Charter Schools"}
      ],
      "created": "126251302"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Example 2 - GET individual mock magazine

Request mock magazine

```
GET /api/v1/magazines/1234?format=json&mock=True HTTP/1.1
Host: example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript
```

Response mock magazine

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Vary: Accept
Content-Type: text/javascript

{
  "id": "1234",
  "type": "magazine",
  "title": "Public Water Systems",
  "tags": [
    {"id": "125", "name": "Environment"},
    {"id": "834", "name": "Water Quality"}
  ],
  "created": "1231621302"
}
```

#### Example 3 - POST article to mock magazine

Post an article to mock magazine 1234

```
POST /api/v1/magazines/1234/articles?mock=True HTTP/1.1
Host: example.gov.au
Accept: application/json, text/javascript

{
  "title": "Raising Revenue",
  "author_first_name": "Jane",
  "author_last_name": "Smith",
  "author_email": "jane.smith@example.gov",
  "date": "2014-06-22",
  "text": "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Etiam eget ante ut augue..."
}
```

##### Note

This method would not result in an article being posted, it is only a simulation.

